[docs] add SEO docs (#3946)
sveltejs/kit: documentation/docs/09-seo.md

---
title: SEO
---

The most important aspect of SEO is to create high-quality content that is widely linked to from around the web. However, there are a few technical considerations for building sites that rank well.

> ### Zero config SEO benefits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Out of the box
```

#### SSR

> By default, SvelteKit does server-side rendering. While some search engines can index client-side content, not all do. For those that do, there will often be a larger delay between publishing content and having it indexed with client-side rendering compared to server-side rendering. Thus, it is recommended that you leave SSR on for best results. SvelteKit offers highly configurable rendering that will allow you to do things like [dynamic rendering](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/javascript/dynamic-rendering) where you serve server-side rendered pages to search engines and client-rendered pages to your users. This is not necessarily something that we recommend for a number of reasons such as the increased possibility of having breakages visible only to search engines, the difficulty in creating an exhaustive whitelist of search engine user agents, and a worse experience for users with JavaScript disabled. However, the fact that it would be fairly easy to setup does show off SvelteKit's abilities rather well.

Reviewer 2: "However, the fact that it would be fairly easy to setup does show off SvelteKit's abilities rather well." seems like a weird thing to put here, and sounds like something that someone writing a comparison blog post between different frameworks would write, not something that would go in official documentation.

#### Performance

Search engines take site performance into account as a ranking factor. [Web Vitals](https://web.dev/vitals/) is a term coined by Google to provide performance metrics regarding a site's load speed. [Google takes the Core Web Vitals into account](https://developers.google.com/search/blog/2020/11/timing-for-page-experience) in deciding which sites to show at the top of the rankings.

> SvelteKit is optimized to give great scores out-of-the-box. Check out [how this site performs on Google PageSpeed Insights](https://pagespeed.web.dev/report?url=https%3A%2F%2Fkit.svelte.dev%2F). We invite you to compare against sites built with other frameworks. If scores on your site are not high, we recommend trying to minimize the size of included dependencies and to use the developer tools provided by your browser to diagnose.

Reviewer 2: "We invite you to compare against sites built with other frameworks." also seems like a weird thing to put here. Is this a marketing page or documentation?

#### Canonicalized URLs

SvelteKit redirects URLs with trailing slashes to versions without trailing slash or vice versa depending on your [configuration](configuration#trailingslash).

### SEO setup

#### `meta` tags

> It is generally recommended to add `meta` HTML tags to your page. These can be created just as any other Svelte element. The Svelte Society website has an [example](https://github.com/svelte-society/sveltesociety.dev/blob/staging/src/lib/components/Seo.svelte). You may also find the [`stuff`](loading#input-stuff) feature as helpful for constructing `meta` tags in some cases where you want to pass content from a page to a layout.

Reviewer 2: I'd be wary of linking to specific files on an external repo, certainly without also referring to a specific commit. Is there anything else we can do here instead of this?

> ### SEO setup
> 
> #### `meta` tags
> 
> It is generally recommended to add `meta` HTML tags to your page. These can be created just as any other Svelte element. The Svelte Society website has an [example](https://github.com/svelte-society/sveltesociety.dev/blob/staging/src/lib/components/Seo.svelte). You may also find the [`stuff`](loading#input-stuff) feature as helpful for constructing `meta` tags in some cases where you want to pass content from a page to a layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Manual setup

#### `title` and `meta`

Every page should have well-written and unique `<title>` and `<meta name="description">` elements inside a [`<svelte:head>`](https://svelte.dev/docs#template-syntax-svelte-head). Guidance on how to write descriptive titles and descriptions, along with other suggestions on making content understandable by search engines, can be found on Google's [Lighthouse SEO audits](https://web.dev/lighthouse-seo/) documentation.

> A common pattern is to return SEO-related [`stuff`](/docs/loading#output-stuff) from page `load` functions, then use it (as [`$page.stuff`](/docs/modules#$app-stores)) in a `<svelte:head>` in your root [layout](/docs/layouts).
```

```
	preprocess: sveltePreprocess({
		preserve: ['ld+json']
	})
```

#### Sitemaps

Sitemaps can be used to help search engines properly prioritize crawling on your site and are most useful when your site is really large. Frontend frameworks have no way of knowing what content on your site might have been recently added or updated, so this is largely something you'll have to create yourself. You can create an endpoint that dynamically generates a sitemap according to [the sitemap specification](https://www.sitemaps.org/protocol.html) by reading from your content source such as an API or database and then outputting the appropriate XML content. If you're building a site hosting video, images, or news you may also want to consider adding [sitemap extensions](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/sitemaps/build-sitemap#extensions).

> Here's a `src/routes/sitemap.xml.js` endpoint that returns an empty sitemap with multimedia support to get you started:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Sitemaps](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/sitemaps/build-sitemap) help search engines prioritize pages within your site, particularly when you have a large amount of content. You can create a sitemap dynamically using a `src/routes/sitemap.xml.js` endpoint:
```

> There is not too much special you need to do in SvelteKit to provide structured data, so we recommend that you reference [Google's documentation regarding structured data](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/structured-data/intro-structured-data). If you're using `svelte-preprocess`, please note that [you'll currently need to use the `preserve` option](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte-preprocess/issues/305):
> 
> ```
> 	preprocess: sveltePreprocess({
> 		preserve: ['ld+json']
> 	})
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Structured data](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/structured-data/intro-structured-data) helps search engines understand the content of a page. If you're using structured data alongside [`svelte-preprocess`](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte-preprocess), you will need to explicitly preserve `ld+json` data (this [may change in future](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte-preprocess/issues/305)):

```
// svelte.config.js
import preprocess from 'svelte-preprocess';

export default {
	preprocess: preprocess({
		preserve: ['ld+json'],
		// ...
	})
};
```
```
```
```

```js
export async function get() {
	const headers = {
		'Content-Type': 'application/xml',
	};
	return {
		headers,
		body: `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
		<urlset
			xmlns="https://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9"
			xmlns:xhtml="https://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
			xmlns:mobile="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-mobile/1.0"
			xmlns:news="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-news/0.9"
			xmlns:image="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-image/1.1"
			xmlns:video="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-video/1.1"
		></urlset>`,

> 	};

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	return {
		headers: {
			'Content-Type': 'application/xml'
		},
		body: `
			<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
			<urlset
				xmlns="https://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9"
				xmlns:xhtml="https://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
				xmlns:mobile="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-mobile/1.0"
				xmlns:news="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-news/0.9"
				xmlns:image="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-image/1.1"
				xmlns:video="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-video/1.1"
			>
				<!-- <url> elements go here -->
			</urlset>
		`.trim()
	};
```

> Sitemaps can be used to help search engines properly prioritize crawling on your site and are most useful when your site is really large. Frontend frameworks have no way of knowing what content on your site might have been recently added or updated, so this is largely something you'll have to create yourself. You can create an endpoint that dynamically generates a sitemap according to [the sitemap specification](https://www.sitemaps.org/protocol.html) by reading from your content source such as an API or database and then outputting the appropriate XML content. If you're building a site hosting video, images, or news you may also want to consider adding [sitemap extensions](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/sitemaps/build-sitemap#extensions).
> 
> Here's a `src/routes/sitemap.xml.js` endpoint that returns an empty sitemap with multimedia support to get you started:
> ```js
> export async function get() {
> 	const headers = {
> 		'Content-Type': 'application/xml',
> 	};
> 	return {
> 		headers,
> 		body: `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
> 		<urlset
> 			xmlns="https://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9"
> 			xmlns:xhtml="https://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
> 			xmlns:mobile="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-mobile/1.0"
> 			xmlns:news="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-news/0.9"
> 			xmlns:image="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-image/1.1"
> 			xmlns:video="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-video/1.1"
> 		></urlset>`,
> 	};
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Sitemaps](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/sitemaps/build-sitemap) help search engines prioritize pages within your site, particularly when you have a large amount of content. You can create a sitemap dynamically using a `src/routes/sitemap.xml.js` endpoint:

```js
export async function get() {
	return {
		headers: {
			'Content-Type': 'application/xml'
		},
		body: `
			<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
			<urlset
				xmlns="https://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9"
				xmlns:xhtml="https://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
				xmlns:mobile="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-mobile/1.0"
				xmlns:news="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-news/0.9"
				xmlns:image="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-image/1.1"
				xmlns:video="https://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-video/1.1"
			>
				<!-- <url> elements go here -->
			</urlset>
		`.trim()
	};
}
```
```
```
```

#### AMP

> An unfortunate reality of modern web development is that it is sometimes necessary to create an [AMP](https://amp.dev/) version of your site. In SvelteKit this can be done by setting the [`amp`](/docs/configuration#amp) config option, which has the following effects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An unfortunate reality of modern web development is that it is sometimes necessary to create an [AMP](https://amp.dev/) version of your site. In SvelteKit this can be done by setting the [`amp`](/docs/configuration#amp) config option, which has the following effects:
```
```suggestion
An unfortunate reality of modern web development is that it is sometimes necessary to create an [Accelerated Mobile Pages](https://amp.dev/) (AMP) version of your site. In SvelteKit this can be done by setting the [`amp`](/docs/configuration#amp) config option, which has the following effects:
```

SvelteKit is optimized to give great scores out-of-the-box. Check out [how this site performs on Google PageSpeed Insights](https://pagespeed.web.dev/report?url=https%3A%2F%2Fkit.svelte.dev%2F). We invite you to compare against sites built with other frameworks. If scores on your site are not high, we recommend trying to minimize the size of included dependencies and to use the developer tools provided by your browser to diagnose.

#### Normalized URLs

SvelteKit redirects URLs with trailing slashes to versions without trailing slash or vice versa depending on your [configuration](configuration#trailingslash).

### SEO setup

#### `meta` tags

It is generally recommended to add `meta` HTML tags to your page. These can be created just as any other Svelte element. The Svelte Society website has an [example](https://github.com/svelte-society/sveltesociety.dev/blob/staging/src/lib/components/Seo.svelte). You may also find the [`stuff`](loading#input-stuff) feature as helpful for constructing `meta` tags in some cases where you want to pass content from a page to a layout.

#### Structured data

> There is not too much special you need to do in SvelteKit to provide structured data, so we recommend that you reference [Google's documentation regarding structured data](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/structured-data/intro-structured-data). If you're using `svelte-preprocess`, please note that [you'll currently need to use the `preserve` option](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte-preprocess/issues/305):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Structured data](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/structured-data/intro-structured-data) helps search engines understand the content of a page. If you're using structured data alongside [`svelte-preprocess`](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte-preprocess), you will need to explicitly preserve `ld+json` data (this [may change in future](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte-preprocess/issues/305)):
```

> ```

Reviewer: don't think i can add a commit suggestion with this going haywire, but the block should have a `js`

> 	preprocess: sveltePreprocess({
> 		preserve: ['ld+json']
> 	})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// svelte.config.js
import preprocess from 'svelte-preprocess';

export default {
	preprocess: preprocess({
		preserve: ['ld+json'],
		// ...
	})
};
```
